==Pirate==

<!--Description-->

===Creating a Pirate===

{| class="5e" style="float:right" border=1 cellpadding=2 cellspacing=2
!http://orig12.deviantart.net/df42/f/2010/272/5/2/pirates_by_delowar-d2zpqls.jpg
|-
|Pirates by Ilya Komarov at [http://www.deviantart.com/art/pirates-180919792 deviantArt]
|}

<!--Questions to help player develop character-->

{{5e Class Features
|name=Pirate
|summary= Yarrr matey's!
|hd=8
|spellcasting=
|armor=Light armor, shields
|weapons=Simple weapons, crossbows, scimitar, rapiers, shortswords
|tools=Navigator's tools
|saves=Dexterity, Charisma
|skills=Choose three from Acrobatics, Deception, Intimidate, Insight, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Stealth, Survival
|item1a=a rapier
|item1b=a shortsword
|item2a=a light crossbow and 20 bolts
|item2b=a scimitar
|item3a=a dungeoneer's pack
|item3b=an explorer's pack
|item4a=[[Pirate Garb (5e Equipment)|Pirate Garb]], a dagger, and navigator's tools
|item4b=
|classfeatures1=Dueling Ace, Fencing Adept
|classfeatures2=Rigging Monkey, Slippery as an Eel
|classfeatures3=Pirate Reputation, Sturdy Sea Legs
|classfeatures4=Ability Score Improvement, Pirate Garb
|classfeatures5=Extra Attack
|classfeatures6=Follow Foe, Fencing Adept Improvement
|classfeatures7=Grog Master, Eagle Eyes
|classfeatures8=
|classfeatures9=Reputation feature
|classfeatures10=Slippery as an Eel Improvement
|classfeatures11=Extra Attack(2)
|classfeatures12=
|classfeatures13=Legendary Greed
|classfeatures14=Reputation feature
|classfeatures15=Fencing Master, Certain Death
|classfeatures16=
|classfeatures17=Deny Action, Slippery as an Eel Improvement
|classfeatures18=Reputation feature
|classfeatures19=
|classfeatures20=Reputation feature

|extrasonleft=1
|extra1_name=Dueling Bonus
|extra1_1=1d6
|extra1_2=1d6
|extra1_3=1d6
|extra1_4=1d6
|extra1_5=1d6
|extra1_6=1d6
|extra1_7=1d8
|extra1_8=1d8
|extra1_9=1d8
|extra1_10=1d8
|extra1_11=1d8
|extra1_12=1d8
|extra1_13=1d10
|extra1_14=1d10
|extra1_15=1d10
|extra1_16=1d10
|extra1_17=1d10
|extra1_18=1d10
|extra1_19=1d12
|extra1_20=1d12
}}

<!--Describe class features in more detail here=-->
====Dueling Ace====
Beginning at 1st level, when you try to attack a target with a melee attack on your turn, you may begin dueling with them. All subsequent attacks you make against that target deal an extra 1d6 in damage. If a target you’re dueling decides to attack someone other than you on their turn, your attacks against them get advantage on your next turn and you deal bonus damage equal to your class level per hit. If you’re dueling and you attempt to attack another target, you begin dueling with them instead. The dueling die changes as you gain Pirate levels, as shown in the Dueling Bonus column of the Pirate table.

====Fencing Adept====
At 1st level, while wielding a finesse weapon if you’re the target of a melee attack from a target that you are dueling, you may use your reaction to add a +1 bonus to your AC. At 6th level, you can increase this to a +2 bonus to AC.

====Rigging Monkey====
Starting at 2nd level, a life of sailing has given you considerable expertise when it comes to climbing. You gain a climb speed equal to your land speed, and proficiency in Athletics.

====Slippery as an Eel====
Starting at 2nd level, if you take damage from a melee attack, as a reaction you may allow yourself to be flung backwards, thereby lessening the impact. If you make an Acrobatics check equal to or greater than twice the damage inflicted, you suffer only half the damage. You’re moved away 5 feet away from the source of damage. At 10th level, you take half the damage if it’s equal to or greater than the damage inflicted. At 17th level, you take half the damage if it’s equal to or greater than half the damage inflicted.

====Pirate Reputation====
When you reach 3rd level, you choose how you want people to perceive you. Choose Dread Pirate or Cunning Pirate, both detailed at the end of the class description. The archetype you choose grants you features at 3rd level and again at 9th, 14th, 18th, and 20th level.

====Sturdy Sea Legs====
Starting at 3rd level, a lifetime of fighting on land and sea has taught you to travel with ease over any terrain. You ignore difficult terrain up to half your speed. You gain +5 movement speed; you also gain a +10ft bonus to movement speed on ships.

====Ability Score Increase====
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of you choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.

====Pirate Garb====
Beginning at 4th level, while wearing the awe inspiring garb of a Pirate, you add double your proficiency bonus on Performance, Persuasion, Deception, or Intimidation checks on Disadvantage rolls.

====Extra Attack====
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

====Follow Foe====
Starting at 6th level, when a target you’re dueling takes the disengage action, you can use your reaction to move up to your movement speed to keep up with your target. You must use this movement to stay as close to your target as possible.

====Grog Master====
At 7th level, years of heavy drinking has left you hardy and resilient. You have advantage on saving throws vs poisons.

====Eagle Eyes====
At 7th level, your time at sea has given you an affinity for spotting incoming foes. You have advantage on all Perception rolls initiated by the DM. In addition, you may use a bonus action on your turn to make a Perception check to find a hidden creature.

====Legendary Greed====
Starting at 13th level, your insatiable lust for treasure has honed the mind and raised suspicion. You have advantage on Intelligence checks for remembering where and how to find treasure hordes, and have advantage on Insight checks when determining the truthfulness behind any statement involving treasure.

====Fencing Master====
Beginning at 15th level, on a successful block when using the Fencing Adept ability you may immediately make an attack against the attacker as a reaction. You also get an additional reaction per turn.

====Certain Death====
At 15th level, if below 1/3 of your maximum health, when you use the Dueling Ace ability targets take twice your level in damage.

====Belay That!====
At 17th level, when a creature you have already targeted within 30 feet takes an action, you may use your reaction to make a melee or ranged attack (as appropriate) against that creature. On a hit, the creature takes no damage, but their action is spent without having taken effect. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.

==Pirate Reputations==
===Dread Pirate===

Some of your features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
:'''Ability save DC''' = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier

====Imposing Figure====
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, as a bonus action you may force all enemies within 60 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is frightened until the end of your next turn. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.
If any enemy is within 5 feet of you when they become frightened, they provoke an attack of opportunity and remain frightened.

====Words of Terror====
At 6th level, as a bonus action to utter terrible threats to a target you’re dueling. The target must be able to understand at least one language you can speak. The target must make a Wisdom saving. On a failed save you gain advantage on attacks and the target takes psychic damage equal to the Dread Pirate’s Charisma modifier times two (at level 14 this increase to 3 your Charisma modifier damage). You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

====Horrifying Figure====
Starting at 9th level, you become your enemies’ worst nightmare.  When you use the Imposing Figure ability, you may force your targets to act as though under the effects of the spell “Fear” instead. All enemies take 12d4 psychic damage on a failed save and half as much damage on a successful one.

====Dead Men Tell Tales====
Starting at 14th level, word has spread of your terrors. You have advantage on all Intimidation checks against those who recognize you.  You gain advantage on one attack made against one enemy that has been fighting you, or your allies, for more than three rounds.

====Crippling Words====
At 18th level, in addition to the effects of Words of Terror, the target becomes paralyzed until the end of your next turn.

====Dreadful Aura====
Beginning at 18th level, as an action, you may begin to radiate an aura of pure menace inspiring hopelessness and dread in all who enter it for up to 10 minutes. Enemies who enter or begin their turn within 30 feet of you have disadvantage on attack rolls against you and your allies. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.  If on the high seas, enemies must pass a wisdom saving throw DC 13, on a fail, they jump ship.  If on land, when enemies enter the aura they provoke an attack of opportunity as if they just passed by you.

====Davey Jones' Locker====
At 20th level, you use your entire action to channel the spirit of Davey Jones. You may pick 5 enemies + your charisma modifier within 120 feet of you. These enemies must pass a wisdom saving throw higher than your spell-save DC, on a failed save, these enemies swear fealty to you for the next hour. They retain their order in the initiative. Those who swear fealty take 12d12 psychic damage when the effects end. On a successful save, the enemies take 6d12 psychic damage. You may use this ability once per long rest.

===Cunning Pirate===
Some of your features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature's effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
:'''Ability save DC''' = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier

====Explosives Expert====
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, Cunning Pirates learn to create devious bombs to take down their opponents. You may spend 1 hour and 10 gold pieces in a village, town, or city collecting materials to create a bombs of your choice.  You can carry bombs of each type equal to your intelligence modifier but no more than that. Roll a d4 plus your charisma modifier to determine how many bombs you are able to create within that hour. After the roll, you are free to determine which bombs you create. As an action, you may throw a bomb 30 feet, which affects a 15 foot sphere. The types of bombs you can make are listed below.

:'''Powder bomb.''' Creates a 15ft radius explosion. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or take 5d6 fire damage, half as much on a successful save.

:'''Scatter bomb.''' Creates an explosion sending small pellets flying. This bomb's explosion radius is only 5 ft due to the pellets' loss of momentum. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or take 5d8 piercing damage, half as much on a successful save.

:'''Poison bomb.''' Releases a cloud of poison. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving throw vs your ability save or take 3d6 poison damage, and must repeat the saving throw at the start of each of its turns. On each successive failed save, the character takes 1d6 poison damage. After three successful saves, the poison ends.

:'''Smoke bomb.''' Releases a cloud of smoke. The area becomes heavily obscured for 10 minutes or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it.

:'''Sticky Bomb.''' Releases a viscous liquid that covers the ground. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or be restrained. All creatures must make a Strength save at the end of each of their turns to free themselves.

====Cheap Shot====

At 6th level, you can attempt to blind a target you’re dueling. As a bonus action, you can throw dirt or sand 5 feet as long as it is available. Your target must make a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or be blinded until your next turn. Only usable against Beasts and Humanoids. You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.

====Poison Savant====
Starting at 9th level, whenever you spend an hour in town collecting bomb materials, you may also collect vials of poison. Spend 10 gold pieces and roll a separate d4 and add your charisma modifier to determine how many vials of poison you are able to purchase up to a maximum capacity of 8. The only poison you are able to procure this way is basic poison which uses your ability save.
In addition, as a bonus action you can apply any injury poison to a weapon or five pieces of ammunition. Once applied, the poison retains potency for 5 minute before drying.

====Explosives Master====
Starting at 14th level, you learn to create more powerful bombs, as listed below. To create these new bombs you must spend 50 gold pieces and spend 2 hours in a village, town, or city. You are only allowed to have one of each bomb at a time. The radius of affect for all your bombs increases by 5 feet. Furthermore, when creating the bombs listed under explosives expert ability, you can roll a d6 to determine how many bombs you create.

:'''Incendiary bomb.''' Creates a deadly explosion. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or take 7d10 fire damage, half as much on a successful save.

:'''Fury bomb.''' Releases a cloud of gas. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving throw vs your ability save or begin attacking the nearest creature. All creatures must make a Wisdom save at the end of each of their turns to overcome the gas.

:'''Sleep bomb.''' Releases a cloud of gas. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving throw vs your ability save or be knocked unconscious. All creatures must make a Wisdom save at the end of each of their turns to overcome the gas. A sleeping creature awakens when attacked.

:'''Concussive bomb.''' Creates a concussive shock-wave. All creatures in the area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw vs your ability save or be stunned. All creatures must make a Wisdom save at the end of each of their turns to snap out of it.

====Death from above====
At 14th level, whenever you drop down adjacent to a creature from a height of at least 5 feet, you get advantage on the attack roll and deal an additional 3d12 damage.

====Black Market Regular====
Beginning at 18th level, you are considered an important person in underground black markets. Whenever you spend an hour acquiring poisons, you can acquire any type of poison. You must spend 100gp and roll a d6 plus your charisma modifier to determine how many vials you collect. After the roll, you are free to determine which poisons you collect. The save against the poisons is your ability save.

====Disabling blow====
At 20th level, whenever you hit with a finesse weapon you may choose to sever a muscle in one of the areas on your target listed below. This is limited to Beasts and Humanoids. The target must rest for a month before regaining proper use of that area.

:'''Neck.''' You disable their vocal chords. They are unable to speak, cast spells, or preform any actions that require the mouth.

:'''Arm.''' You disable a muscle in one of their arms. They are unable to hold items or preform any actions with that arm. If they are carrying anything when you make the attack, it drops to the ground.

:'''Leg.''' You disable a muscle in one of their legs. If you disable half of their total legs, they may only move half their movement speed. If you disable all of their legs, their movement speed is reduced to 0.

=== Multiclassing ===

<!--Provide any information or prerequisites on multiclassing into this class beyond the rules in the PHB, Chapter 6.-->

'''Prerequisites.''' To qualify for multiclassing into the Pirate class, you must meet these prerequisites: Dexterity 13 and Charisma 13

'''Proficiencies.''' When you multiclass into the Pirate class, you gain the following proficiencies: Light armor, shields, simple weapons, one skill from the class's skill list, navigator's tools


----
{{5e Classes Breadcrumb}}
[[Category:5e]]
[[Category:DnD]]
[[Category:User]]
[[Category:Class]]
