
==Orc==



===Physical Description===

Orcs are savage raiders and pillagers with stooped postures, low foreheads, and piggish faces with prominent lower canines that resemble tusks.

===History===

Orcs worship Gruumsh, the mightiest of the orc deities and their creator. The Orcs believe that in ancient days, the gods gathered to divide the world among their followers. When Gruumsh claimed the mountains, he learned they had been taken by the dwarves. He laid claim to the forests, but those had been settled by the elves. Each place that Gruumsh wanted had already been claimed. The other gods laughed at Gruumsh, but he responded with a furious bellow. Grasping his mighty spear, he laid waste to the mountains, set the forests aflame, and carved great furrows in the fields. Such was the role of the Orcs, he proclaimed, to take and destroy all that the other races would deny them. To this day, the Orcs wage an endless war on humans, elves, dwarves, and other folk. Orcs hold a particular hatred for elves. The elven god Corellon Larethian half-blinded Gruumsh with a well-placed arrow to the orc god's eye. Since then, the Orcs have taken particular joy in slaughtering elves. Turning his injury into a baleful gift, Gruumsh grants divine might to any champion who willingly plucks out one of its eyes in his honor. Orcs gather in tribes that exert their dominance and satisfy their blood-lust by plundering villages, devouring or driving off roaming herds, and slaying any humanoids that stand against them. After savaging a settlement, orcs pick it clean of wealth and items usable in their own lands. They set the remains of villages and camps ablaze, then retreat whence they came, their blood-lust satisfied. Their lust for slaughter demands that orcs dwell always within striking distance of new targets. As such, they seldom settle permanently, instead converting ruins, cavern complexes, and defeated foes' villages into fortified camps and strongholds. Orcs build only for defence, making no innovation or improvement to their lairs beyond mounting the severed body parts of their victims on spiked stockade walls or pikes jutting up from moats arid trenches. When an existing territory is depleted of food, an orc tribe divides into roving bands that scout for choice hunting grounds. When each party returns, it brings back trophies and news of targets ripe for attack, the richest of which is chosen. The tribe then sets out en masse to carve a bloody path to its new territory. On rare occasions, a tribe's leader chooses to hold onto a particularly defensible lair for decades. The Orcs of such a tribe must range far across the countryside to sate their appetites.

===Society===
Orc tribes are mostly patriarchal, flaunting such vivid or grotesque titles as Many-Arrows, Screaming Eye, and Elf Ripper. Occasionally, a powerful war chief unites scattered Orc tribes into a single rampaging horde, which runs roughshod over other orc tribes and humanoid settlements from a position of overwhelming strength. Strength and power are the greatest of Orcish virtues,and Orcs embrace all manner of mighty creatures in their tribes. Rejecting notions of racial purity, they proudly welcome Ogres, Trolls, Half-Orcs, and Orogs into their ranks. As well, Orcs respect and fear the size and power of evil giants, and often serve them as guards and soldiers.

===Orc Names===
<!--Lead text-->

'''Male Orc Names''': Deneh, Feng, Gell, Henk, Holg, Imsh,
Kelh, Krusk, Mhurren, Ront. Shump. Thokk

'''Female Orc Names''': Baggi, Emen, Engong. Kansif.
Myev. Neega. Ovak, Ownka, Shaulha, Sulha. Vola,
Volen, Yevelda

===Orc Traits===
{{5e Racial Traits
|summary=A race of brutal warriors who know little of mercy or kindness. <!--Short summary.  This will also be displayed on the race index page.  -->
|abilities=Your Strength increases by 2.
|age=Orcs are short-lived and usually die at around age 50 unless killed
|alignment= Given their culture and religion, Orcs are almost always Chaotic Evil.
|size= Orcs are muscular and have a height of around 6'5. Your size is medium
|speed=Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
|trait1=Darkvision
|description1=You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern colour in darkness, only shades of gray.
|trait5=
|description5=
|languages=You can speak Common and Orcish
|subrace=
}}



====Gray Orcs (Mountain Orc)====

Dwelling in remote, desolate corners of the world the nomadic gray orcs make out as much of a meager existence as they can, traveling along traditional migratory routes between campsites and favored caves as the seasons change. A typical gray orc tribe consists of 30 to 50 members, led by the strongest orc in the tribe, known as a chieftain. While responsible for deciding when to go to battle the position tends to be a temporary one at best as they are constantly being killed (either in battle or through treachery) and replaced. The true power behind a tribe of gray orcs, though, is the tribe's high priest, who is typically a cleric who has held the position for many years. The clerics of other tribes are often viewed as heretics, despite the fact that both tribes likely worship the same deities. Gray orcs worship all the various orc deities equally. They acknowledge Gruumsh as the leader of the orc gods, but a typical gray orc doesn't feel bound to worship him above any other deity, and usually selects a deity that most closely aligns with that orc's particular interests and temperament. Most of the orcs of a particular tribe worship the same deity.

{{5e Subrace Traits
|abilities= +1 Wis
|trait1=Cold Adapted
|description1= You have resistance to cold damage.
|trait2=Natural Hunter
|description2= You gain proficiency with hand axe's and spears.
|trait3= Mountain Tracker
|description3=You gain advantage to Wisdom (Survival) checks to track creatures in mountainous terrain.
|trait4=Mountain Born
|description4=You’re acclimated to high altitude, including elevations above 20,000 feet. You’re also naturally adapted to cold climates, as described in chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
|trait5=Sun Adapted
|description5= Due to the way these orc's have lived over the many generations they  have become accustomed to the sun and have over come their sunlight sensitivity.
}}

====Common Orc (Green/Brown Orc)====

Traditional  Common Orc culture is extremely warlike and when not at war the race is usually planning for it. Most Orcs approach life with the belief that to survive, one must subjugate potential enemies and control as much resources as possible, which puts them naturally at odds with other races as well as themselves. This belief is spurred in part by Gruumsh and his pantheon, which teaches that all races are inferior to the Orcs. Eyes of Gruumsh are orcs specially tied to the one-eyed god and offer sacrifices, read omens, and advise tribes through Gruumsh's will. For millennia Common Orc's have plagued civilizations as raiders and pillaging hordes with orc tribes united under the banner of Gruumsh.

{{5e Subrace Traits
|abilities= +1 Con
|trait1=Aggressive
|description1= Once per short rest, as a bonus action you can move up to your speed towards a hostile creature more then 5ft away that you can see.
|trait2=Battle Ready
|description2=Proficiency with Great axe's and Lances.
|trait3=Relentless Endurance
|description3= When you are reduced to 0 hit points but are not killed out right, you can drop to 1 hp instead. Can only be used once per long rest.
|trait4=Savage Attacks
|description4=When you roll a critical hit with a melee weapon, you can roll one of the weapon dice again and add it to the total.
|trait5=Tight Grip. Can use oversized weapons due to natural strength.
|description5=}}

====Orog (Ogre Born Orc)====

Orogs, also called elite orcs or greater orcs, are the much larger kin of normal orcs. They usually reach well over 6 feet tall but closely resemble normal orcs in all ways except build: orogs are much stronger and stockier. It is believed that orogs are the result of the union of a male orc and female ogre. In contrast to lesser orcs, orogs are highly disciplined and straightforward. Orogs within an orc community quickly rise to leadership positions within their clan, although in orc armies the orogs will segregate themselves into all-orog military units. Orog military units are highly organized, tactically superior, and far more dangerous than those of normal orcs. Such orog units form the vanguard of the army to which they belong. Orogs do not separate themselves into their own clans, despite their tendency to self-segregate while in an orc army.

{{5e Subrace Traits
|abilities= +1 Con
|age= due to their ogre ancestry Orogs can live up to 100 years.
|trait2=Powerful Build
|description2=You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift.
|trait3=Display of Strength
|description3=You gain proficiency in the Intimidation skill and you can use your strength modifier instead of your charisma modifier for intimidation checks. You also have advantage against fear effects.
|trait4= Superior Darkvison
|description4= You can see in dim light within 120 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can’t discern colour in darkness, only shades of gray.
|trait5=Battle Born
|description5=Proficiency with Great axe's and Great mauls.
|trait6=
|description=6
}}

====Ocean-born/Water Orc (Water Plane Touched Orc)====


Water Orc's are a society of Orc's who live in touch with the elemental plane of water or by the ocean. These orc's follow a path very similar to their green-skin cousins as brutal raiders and fighters. Water orcs exemplify the water-born creatures turned to evil. Though slow to reach decisions, once a water orc chooses a course of action its resolve is harder to shift than a tidal wave.

{{5e Subrace Traits
|abilities= +2 Dex
|trait1=Water Born
|description1= You can hold your breath for twice the normal amount then that of a normal orc while underwater and your base walking speed is reduced to 25 feet but you gain 25 feet swim speed.
|trait2=Natural Water Hunters
|description2=You gain proficiency with Tridents and Nets, the DC to escape your Nets and the Nets AC is also increased by your proficiency bonus.
|trait3=Natural Fisher
|description3=You gain proficiency in the survival skill. You also have advantage on Wisdom(survival) checks to find food by or in a water source such as a lake, river or the ocean.
|trait4= Fire Weakness
|description4= You have disadvantage all saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities with the fire descriptor or used by creatures from the Elemental Plane of Fire.
}}

===Orc Random Height and Weight===
{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="d20"
|-
|+ Table: Orc Random Height and Weight
|- style="white-space: nowrap;"
! style="text-align: left;" | Base Height || Height Modifier || Base Weight || Weight Modifier
|- style="white-space: nowrap;"
| style="text-align: left;" | <!-- base feet height --> 5'1<!-- inches -->″ || +2d10<!-- height modifier --> || <!--base weight --> 140 lb. || &times; (1d6) lb.
|}
|}

===Orog Random Height and Weight===
{| cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="d20"
|-
|+ Table: Orog Random Height and Weight
|- style="white-space: nowrap;"
! style="text-align: left;" | Base Height || Height Modifier || Base Weight || Weight Modifier
|- style="white-space: nowrap;"
| style="text-align: left;" | <!-- base feet height --> 6'8<!-- inches -->″ || +2d8<!-- height modifier --> || <!--base weight --> 160 lb. || &times; (1d6) lb.
|}
|}
----
{{5e Races Breadcrumb}}
[[Category:5e]]
[[Category:User]]
[[Category:Race]]
[[Category:Medium Size]]
[[Category:Humanoid Type]]
